README.md, before:

# Icon Components

A design system can also incorporate a full set of Icons.

To automatically create the source code for icon web components for a full folder of SVG files, this plugin comes in handy. Just add it to your stencil project and generate the icons.

### Install

```bash
npm install react-icon-components
```

Add a command (script) to your package.json to create the components like;

```json
scripts: {
    ...
    "build:icons": "icon-components --src assets/icons --dest src/components/icons --template react",
    ...
}
```

### Options

| option         | description                                                                                                                                                                                                | default                 |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| `--src`        | Source folder with SVG files                                                                                                                                                                               | `/src/assets/icons`     |
| `--dest`       | Destination folder for components                                                                                                                                                                          | `/src/components/icons` |
| `--template`   | Choose output type. Options; stencil, react, react-material                                                                                                                                                |                         |
| `--prefix`     | Add a prefix to all files, ex; social-network.svg becomes icon-social-network                                                                                                                              | `false`                 |
| `--remove-old` | Remove the whole destionation folder as set. In order to be sure to not have any old files and create everything new. Don't set this if your destination folder also includes files which arent generated. | `false`                 |

### Using a custom template

At the moment, one command can have one custom template file. The template file can be created in your own project and be used in the CLI.

In the template you can use EJS template strings. The file which will be written will have the same extension as your template file and be written in the set `--dest`.

#### Available options

| Option          | description                         |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| data            | The svg icon file data              |
| title           | Title of the Svg Icon in PascalCase |
| name            | Name of the Svg Icon                |
| title_lowercase | A lowercase version of the title    |

#### Extension .template

You can, if you want. Add `.template` at the end of the file, because it won't be a valid javascript file anyway. The `.template` part will be automatically removed.

For instance; your template file is called. `my-icon-template.js.template` In this case. The files will have `.js` extension.

## Wishlist

- Add option to automatically cleanup the svg files.
- Add option to remove fills/colors
- Add option for custom template files.

## Contributing

Any help to make this package better is very welcome! So if you like this idea and have a good idea for refactor, update, write better docs or add features. Please feel free to contact me or just make a PR.

1. Fork it!
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b my-new-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add some feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin my-new-feature`
5. Submit a pull request :D

## Author

**react-icon-components** © [Sil van Diepen](https://github.com/silvandiepen), Released under the [MIT](./LICENSE) License.<br>
Authored and maintained by Sil van Diepen with help from contributors ([list](https://github.com/silvandiepen/react-icon-components/contributors)).

[github.com/silvandiepen](https://github.com/silvandiepen) · GitHub [@Sil van Diepen](https://github.com/silvandiepen) · Twitter [@silvandiepen](https://twitter.com/silvandiepen)

Commit message:

add list and fix output switch

README.md, after:

# Icon Components

A design system can also incorporate a full set of Icons.

To automatically create the source code for icon web components for a full folder of SVG files, this plugin comes in handy. Just add it to your stencil project and generate the icons.

### Install

```bash
npm install react-icon-components
```

Add a command (script) to your package.json to create the components like;

```json
scripts: {
    ...
    "build:icons": "icon-components --src assets/icons --dest src/components/icons --template react",
    ...
}
```

### Options

| option         | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | default                 |
| -------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| `--src`        | Source folder with SVG files                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | `/src/assets/icons`     |
| `--dest`       | Destination folder for components                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | `/src/components/icons` |
| `--template`   | Choose output type. Options; stencil, react, react-material                                                                                                                                                                                              |                         |
| `--prefix`     | Add a prefix to all files, ex; social-network.svg becomes icon-social-network                                                                                                                                                                            | `false`                 |
| `--remove-old` | Remove the whole destionation folder as set. In order to be sure to not have any old files and create everything new. Don't set this if your destination folder also includes files which arent generated.                                               | `false`                 |
| `--list`       | In many cases it can come in handy to also create a list of all components. This can be created by setting --list. If set, it will create a default list. It can also contain a path to a template, in that case the template will be used for the list. | `false`                 |
| `--in-root`    | By default there a folders created for every component. In case you want all files just to be in the root dest. You can enable `--in-root`                                                                                                               | `false`                 |

### Using a custom template

At the moment, one command can have one custom template file. The template file can be created in your own project and be used in the CLI.

In the template you can use EJS template strings. The file which will be written will have the same extension as your template file and be written in the set `--dest`.

#### Available options

| Option          | description                         |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| data            | The svg icon file data              |
| title           | Title of the Svg Icon in PascalCase |
| name            | Name of the Svg Icon                |
| title_lowercase | A lowercase version of the title    |

#### Extension .template

You can, if you want. Add `.template` at the end of the file, because it won't be a valid javascript file anyway. The `.template` part will be automatically removed.

For instance; your template file is called. `my-icon-template.js.template` In this case. The files will have `.js` extension.

#### Creating the list

In many cases it can come in handy to also create a list of all components. This can be created by setting `--list`. If set, it will create a default list. It can also contain a path to a template, in that case the template will be used for the list.

Default template for list;

```json
{
    "icons": [<% files.forEach(function(file,index) { %>
        "<%= file %>"<% if(index < files.length -1){ %>,<% } %>
    <% }); %>]
}
```

You can create your own list template by setting the first argument to `--list` a path to the template. In that case that template will be used for the list and written in the default destination folder.

## Wishlist

- Add option to automatically cleanup the svg files.
- Add option to remove fills/colors
- Add option for custom template files.

## Contributing

Any help to make this package better is very welcome! So if you like this idea and have a good idea for refactor, update, write better docs or add features. Please feel free to contact me or just make a PR.

1. Fork it!
2. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b my-new-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add some feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin my-new-feature`
5. Submit a pull request :D

## Author

**react-icon-components** © [Sil van Diepen](https://github.com/silvandiepen), Released under the [MIT](./LICENSE) License.<br>
Authored and maintained by Sil van Diepen with help from contributors ([list](https://github.com/silvandiepen/react-icon-components/contributors)).

[github.com/silvandiepen](https://github.com/silvandiepen) · GitHub [@Sil van Diepen](https://github.com/silvandiepen) · Twitter [@silvandiepen](https://twitter.com/silvandiepen)
